Insurance is one of these industries
that serves so many different purposes.
Where we sit in the economy is quite a
unique place. We're not in the business
of predicting the future. We're in the
business of being prepared for all its
eventualities. The market's changing,
the world's changing.
We need to have the liquidity to always
react. [music] We need to be flexible,
but at the same time have permanence and
stay of some of these businesses because
that's what makes you a good partner.
You will likely have trillion-dollar
companies in 2030 that currently don't
exist. And you probably have
trillion-dollar companies or many
hundred-billion-dollar companies that
will not exist. We're starting to see
that, right?
>> But, this is going to be a fascinating
conversation given that you sit in one
of the most interesting investment seats
probably in the world.
I think to give people context, the
right place to start is for you just to
describe the platform, how much money
you manage, how it's managed, to why
that platform is unique and different.
The seat itself is so interesting to me,
and then we'll go on to all the things
that you've learned sitting in the seat
and building building the platform. But
first, just like ground us in what is
the thing, how big is it? What How does
it work?
>> What is the thing? The thing is the
balance sheet of one of the largest
insurance companies in the world. Uh one
of the most diversified insurance
companies of the world in the world,
Liberty Mutual Group, uh which has I
would say two primary insurance
businesses that ultimately feed the
investment platform.
First is the one that probably most are
familiar with, uh the Liberty jingle,
which is our personal lines business,
uh one of the largest in the US. That of
course is the home and auto uh component
of our business. And then there is the
business that is much more
global in nature, uh and really serves a
sophisticated set of companies, brokers,
partners, providing commercial and
specialty insurance across uh many
domains of business. Those two insurance
businesses ultimately seed an investment
platform that takes the reserves as well
as the surplus capital of Liberty Mutual
Group and invests it for the benefit of
our balance sheet, ultimately for the
benefit of our policy holders so that we
can ensure that our promises are always
met and have the financial strength
behind them. So, we are about a $120
billion uh, in capital. And what's
interesting about our platform is that
it allows us an incredibly unique way of
behaving as investors,
which is to say, we are focused not on
any form of third-party capital,
which has lots of benefits but also lots
of uh,
challenges when you manage money. And it
allows us to
think about investing
from a long-term perspective and it
allows us to do the right thing, not the
expedient thing. It allows us to
maintain what I would describe as
investment hygiene.
That is one of the most difficult things
to do when you're managing other
people's money. The other part that's
uh, really quite unique is
the ecosystem that we're in, which
allows us to grow our capital base in
the service of our policy holders. We
are not uh,
driven by shareholders, for example,
whose priority is return on capital in
the form of dividends and buybacks.
That's not part of our structure and it
allows us to again think about making
decisions that are the right decisions,
not expedient decisions.
>> So, maybe explain one level more why the
insurance idea is so powerful. I very
famously Buffett, you know, built a big
chunk of Berkshire's success on this
idea that if you have a sort of
insurance part of your business, you
control this float, he would call it
float, and that that's sort of this
magic access to capital and creates this
permanence that allows you to do things
others can't do. Maybe maybe build that
bridge between sort of the Buffett way
of thinking and and how it feels to
actually operate this thing.
>> What really is interesting to me is how
insurance
is one of these industries that serves
so many different purposes and the way I
like to think about it is that one side
of our business and one side of our
balance sheet is all about protecting
and syndicating that risk allowing risk
uh to be taken by the people in the
world. And so we have a very
um I think appropriate way we think
about that at Liberty. We say we want
people and businesses to embrace today
and confidently pursue tomorrow.
That's what the insurance part of our
business does. When we sell those
promises, when we take in those
premiums, we then
move them to the other side of the
balance sheet and we do something else
that's really interesting for the
economy and society. We invest that
float as Buffett would say it uh but
ultimately invest our policy holders
premiums
in order to grow the economy, to support
the economy, invest in critical
infrastructure, fund entrepreneurs,
create jobs. Where we sit in the economy
is quite a unique place.
We do things on both sides of our
business that allow us to protect and
now create, you know, really the
foundation of commerce and at the same
time grow the economy.
Um that's a unique spot.
>> So coming back to this unique combo, so
you you're providing the value through
insurance, you know, uh hedging people's
risk when we think about it. That
creates this pool of capital, $120
billion that you can then
at least some portion of it, we'll get
into that, invest and support the growth
of the economy, etc., creation of jobs.
Break down the 120. Like how much of
that is tightly controlled and has to be
a certain way cuz it's heavily
regulated? How much of that is more
open? And then for the open portion, how
do you think about how to allocate it?
It's a lot of money, it's one of the
bigger one of the bigger investment
platforms in the US. So that it's a
challenge, like that's a lot of money to
put out, like something that's going to
move you the needle for you needs to be
pretty big. I'm curious how you think
about that. So break break down the 120
for us.
>> So 120 is a snapshot. Uh Uh, I think
that number will be bigger next time we
talk a couple years from now, but let's
let's
>> than last time we talked, yeah. exactly.
So, let's talk about the 120. I would
say you could probably think of it as
roughly 70 to 75 uh
billion of that is
reserves. So,
that could be described as tightly
managed again going back to this notion.
Of course, you want to make sure that
whatever happens in the investment
portfolio, you will always be in
position to fulfill that sacred promise
of
writing an insurance policy uh to your
policyholder.
But, I would say even there, uh I think
we have quite a unique approach. Uh we
are not just buying investment grade
bonds, putting them in the drawer, and
waiting uh for that coupon to come once
a quarter, and then ultimately maturity.
That could be a sleepy, boring way,
frankly, the way this type of capital
pool was managed historically.
We're quite innovative. Uh we do lots of
different things that um allow us to be
a liquidity provider into that
marketplace. But, that's about 75
billion dollars. We can we can talk more
about the unique things we do there. I
would say you could think about the rest
uh as broken out between what we
describe as growth credit and growth
equity.
Those two pools um of capital
are growing as a function of our
surplus, and to your point, they are a
way we can really be a full-service kind
of invest capital provider into all
parts of the economy.
What we've done with our credit business
is taken um
approach not of public private, which
currently of course gets lots of
headlines, but really what is our
levered corporate credit business, and
we've put those
parts together. So, our public credit uh
high-yield uh and lever leveraged loans
business sits with our capital solutions
business, sits with our direct lending
business, and with our partnership uh uh
structure that's focused on credit. All
of them sit together, have one platform,
one reporting structure because we
believe the expertise, frankly, is
what's
>> And you'll do direct deals, you'll do
manager allocations, you'll do big
partnerships, whatever.
>> 100%. And so, the the way I like to
describe that is people very often start
with
a product. Uh so, you could say direct
lending or high yield public uh or or
whatever else you want to take.
I think we ask the question was what
exposure do we want in the totality of
our business. When you ask that
question, the next question is assuming
you could figure it out and have the
ability to build that portfolio of
risks, portfolio of exposures. The next
thing you would do is you'd say, "What's
the best way for me to get those risks?"
And the options are many. The challenge
is most organizations don't have
options. You can take um
perhaps an organization that really has
one way, which is to be an LP. So, then
you are going out, meeting managers, and
ultimately uh allocating capital. You
have people who are direct originators
of of that risk and uh pursue that.
Perhaps that's a GP. And many more. Our
toolkit is vast. So, once we determine
what exposure we want, we've got lots of
different ways of getting that exposure.
And this is really critical because
um I think as an investor
that sits in our platform, you have the
choice set that very few investors have,
which is again to s- figure out, "Do I
want that in direct form? Do I want that
as a co-invest? Do I want that in some
kind of club format with other
sophisticated investors? Do I want to be
an LP because, frankly,
the particular risk is so difficult to
access, so specialized that I have no
aspiration or ambition of trying to
replicate that. I view that as an
extension of my workforce, and that's
the way I'm going to get that exposure."
Same applies in our growth equity
portfolio. Multiple businesses housed
there. Uh one is private equity.
Second is real estate. Third is energy
and infrastructure and fourth, what we
describe as alternative credit. I just
talked about the corporate credit
business. Alternative credit tends to be
all forms of asset-backed finance where
you're lending not against corporate
balance sheets but against ultimately
some pool of collateral.
So, same concept applies. We've got many
different ways we can go to market, get
that exposure.
And that totality of
a toolkit has led to a very, very broad
and interesting ecosystem in itself.
You mentioned, you know, the the the
nexus of where we sit. We get to talk to
lots of different people with very
interesting approaches to the
marketplace and our job is to be
competent across all those choices
because if we are,
we naturally become a hub, a hub of both
interesting transactions that come our
way, opportunities to participate in
really unique off-market things.
>> Ramp is the only platform built to make
your finance team leaner, faster, and
better, saving businesses 5% annually on
average so you can stay focused on
growth. Ramp customers grew revenue 3.2
[music]
times faster than the average American
business. Visa, Vercel, Cursor, Stripe,
[music] Notion, Eleven Labs, Shopify,
and 70,000 other businesses all run on
Ramp. Mine does too and so [music]
should yours. Learn more at
ramp.com/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why.
[music] To achieve enterprise adoption
at scale, you have to deliver on core
capabilities like SSO, [music]
SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs. That's where
WorkOS comes in. Instead [music] of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use your WorkOS APIs to
gain all of them on day zero. That's why
so many of the top AI teams you hear
about already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is
the fastest way to become enterprise
ready and stay focused on what matters
most, your product. [music]
Visit workos.com to get started.
Felix by Rogo is a personal finance
agent [music] that turns a single prompt
into finished client-ready work using
your firm's own templates, contacts,
[music] and standards. Send Felix an
email like, "Take these comments and
turn them for me." or "Update my tracker
with the context of these emails." or
"Run the [music] ability to pay math on
this buyer." and Felix sends back
finished PowerPoint decks, Excel models,
and sourced research. Felix works the
way your team already does, delivering
[music] work quickly and accurately
around the clock. Learn more at
rogo.ai/felix.
[music]
So, especially as you think about the
risk portion of this of this total pie,
you mentioned earlier you sort of start
with where you want exposures and then
you fill the exposures. How do you do
that? Like cuz one way to think about
this is that you're just a giant giant
asset manager and you've got all these
different ways you can express
yourselves, but it starts with like a I
don't know what it's called, a house
view or something like that. How does
the house view get developed and how
often does it change?
>> Let me first tell you what it's not. It
is not a attempt
in any way, shape, or form to predict
the future. In fact, one of the sayings
we have
uh at Liberty Mutual Investments is to
say we're not in the business of
predicting the future, we're in the
business of being prepared for all all
its eventualities.
A house view that tries to predict
whether the way Europe or any of that
stuff. I've been a macro trader. I just
think that that game hardly works and
certainly doesn't work for an
institution like ours. Um and God bless
those that keep playing it and those
that are successful at it. Our house
view is much more about really what
long-term businesses and franchises do
we want to be in. And by the way, the
notion of
being in a business like private equity,
that's not a one or two or three or
five-year business. It has very little
relevance of what our feelings may be on
the environment in the next 2 years.
What I What 3 years. What I want to
always be is in position to be valuable
to our partners, deploy capital into
interesting opportunities,
structure our risks come back to your
actual original questions in a way that
is always always cognizant of our
obligations to Liberty Mutual Group. And
those by the way are not only
through the lens of
making sure we meet those policies.
That's sacrosanct, but
Liberty Mutual Group is a large
enterprise that can
decide to
for example,
add businesses to its structure. It can
acquire
and we need to be in position to always
have the right balance of liquidity
versus long-term investments that we
make that allows to do all that. So, I'd
say liquidity management is actually an
incredibly important component of how
that that broader portfolio gets
constructed. We know that credit is
going to be a large component of our
business and we want to make sure
anything we enter, we have the right
level of expertise. So, for example,
things we have not really done. We have
not expanded much into the European
market largely because we don't think we
have the right relationships in place
there, the right expertise. And even
though that that particular region is
more interesting than it has been in the
past given all the geopolitical
dynamics, it is not a place where we are
spending our time. Despite the size of
the book, despite the growth, we
continue to identify
opportunities in the US that we feel a
lot more comfortable with. So, that's
one way to think about it. Largely US
focused asset classes, um
different parts of the capital
structure. It's a multi-dimensional view
that gets both developed but constantly
refreshed at the top of the house for
sensibility. There isn't a
notion of we have to be this and we have
to be that. The market's changing, the
world's changing.
We need to have the liquidity to always
react. We need to be flexible, but at
the same time have permanence in stay of
some of these businesses because that's
what makes you a good partner and a good
investor in some of them.
>> Let's uh put the hat of the originator
on, whether that's a GP or someone that
has a specific deal or something.
>> Someone that needs capital and has an
idea.
>> Yep.
>> And they come to you because you've got
the reputation you do for being one of
these both big, stable, and flexible
partners that likes kind of novel stuff.
>> Yep.
>> What are the attributes? Like what what
gets your attention? What gets your and
your team's attention? What are the
attributes of of an originator, their
strategy, the idea that tends to get you
engaged?
>> Above all, um I think if you're if
you're coming
from a place of a newish idea or new
you've got ideas and you're looking for
capital partners. One is we always want
to get that phone call. By the virtue of
what I've described before, our approach
to the to the way we partner with
people,
I would say these kinds of things come
as referrals rather than
a barrage of cold calls, and that in
itself is super helpful. What are we
interested in? Well, um there
there's a very wide
waterfront uh of things that we do, and
we already know that. If if something
falls outside the waterfront, there's
obviously going to be a higher burden of
proof on that. We may not have the
expertise. We may not uh be able to
assess or find a fit in the book, but
that's more rare. I think what is more
interesting is what's the
what's the unique proposition that is
being brought forward? By the way, those
are not frequent. Uh it's it's it's not
easy to be original in in many of these
uh uh industries and sub-industries. But
we're willing to back people. We're
willing to take a risk on people we
believe in. If we
see integrity, if we see an idea that um
makes sense, and if we can find a true
partnership
that has the ability to serve both the
originator in this case and Liberty for
the long run.
That links to something very interesting
that's been very important to me in my
time in this role. We just to say what
what possesses a professional sitting at
a stable large insurance asset manager
to take entrepreneurial risk.
Um that's a cultural dynamic and one
that shouldn't be taken for granted
because the easy answer is this falls
outside my
area of comfort. Why in the world would
I take the risk? We have been incredibly
purposeful
in developing a culture where people
have the incentive
are the are the types of people that
would be curious and interested
and have the governance structure in
place to actually take those risks. And
I view that component of the
organization as one of the largest and
most important responsibilities I have
to make sure that we have the people
that will actually engage the right way
because the first time someone turns
that
call away or behaves in a manner which
doesn't demonstrate curiosity and
entrepreneurial spirit. Those referrals
that I
talked about earlier, they'll dry up
because the reputation is built on that
entrepreneurial spirit.
>> Why take the risk at all? Like if I
think about the $120 billion again, long
like you said, there's a long history of
insurance being pretty sleepy, investing
in bonds, earning a small spread on the
float, and no one gets fired, nothing
goes wrong.
Uh you can still be a great insurance
provider. Like why bother at all
applying your craft and your career in
this space versus like a more
traditional asset manager? Like what Why
is the juice worth the squeeze?
>> I really do believe what I described
before, which is really unique place to
sit in the financial system in the
fabric of the economy. You sit and you
support the economy in two different
ways. But specifically, why not just
invest the whole thing in in a bond
portfolio and and and and and go away?
That would prevent you from ultimately
being a balance sheet that can adopt new
technologies because that that's
obviously
a constant in our world. It is a balance
sheet that is able to adapt to the
evolution of the economy. Risks are
evolving all the time. The risks that
insurance companies took on 25 years ago
are very different than they are today
and for sure they will be different
tomorrow. Let me give you an example,
data centers. This is a totally
different scale of the asset and values
than of an asset that have existed
before. Insurance balance sheets aren't
large enough to just absorb that. That's
why you have an extension into all forms
of third party capital coming in. But
that's an example of where if you build
a fortress balance sheet you're able to
do things that others will not. How do
you build that fortress balance sheet?
Through two main engines of
profitability. One is the underwriting
part, but that's a thin margin business.
And then through the asset side where if
you simply take the approach of let me
buy a 4% investment grade bond or 5%
investment grade bond versus try to
achieve a 7 8 9 10% return on the
totality of your portfolio, it's all the
difference in the world. And so it is a
competitive business where the amount of
capital you have will dictate the
opportunity set that is available to you
both on the liability side and the asset
side.
>> But but but in a mutual I'm especially
interested like in a mutual structure
where there aren't share I would totally
understand it if there was like I was an
equity shareholder, you can invest this
at a high rate of return like that's
good for me.
>> Yep.
>> Maybe close the loop for why that's good
for the holistic thing.
>> I would actually reverse that. I think
as a public insurer
>> Yeah.
>> you're not likely to be able to pursue
what we're doing
because if you're a shareholder of a
public insurer you can bifurcate these
two things and say you have historically
not been a sophisticated investor.
You've been much more conservative. And
so what I ask of you
management is to deliver me a very
consistent margin on the underwriting.
And I'd like to get as much capital back
uh from you in the form of dividends or
buybacks. I don't need you to recreate
an investment firm on the asset side of
your balance sheet because if I wanted
you to do that, well, instead I could
just take that investment. I could do
it. That's a classic [clears throat]
example of conglomerates, you know, the
shareholders don't generally welcome
that approach. And it's especially
difficult if you're starting from
scratch. Like, why should you have the
right to build a world-class investment
organization if you're not really
starting there. So, I think the public
sphere therefore operates differently
and is held to a very, very tight
standard on the underwriting side. Now,
the flip side of that, if you're a
mutual, you don't have the forcing
function of of shareholders to ensure
that you are
operating at your best.
But, that's an optional feature of
mutuality. That's not a requirement. The
only requirement is that you can't raise
equity. And so, I think we've made the
choice that we want to be an exceptional
operator.
Uh and that includes exceptional
underwriting results and exceptional
investment organization. How it benefits
our policyholders? Well, first and
foremost, again, we are going to be
there
through thick and thin when
inevitably trouble strikes. The other
component I mentioned that our insurance
businesses are incredibly diverse. So,
if you think about other large insurers,
take a Progressive, uh incredibly
successful company, lots to admire, but
they're very focused on a particular
vertical,
motor in the US. They're incredible at
it.
Those risks require a certain types of
balance sheet. Um they're not
particularly long-tailed.
If you think about our mix, we have
risks that can come back from 20, 30
years ago and be very fat-tailed. So, it
is
really, really important to
differentiate the balance sheet that a
company like Progressive needs versus a
company like Liberty Mutuals. Our tails
[snorts] are fatter, our balance sheet
requirements are are are very different.
So that goes back to this what we
describe as a flywheel.
If we do well for our policy holders in
terms of underwriting underwriting
efficiently creating various products
that tailor and suit their risks and
then invest our capital well, we can
perpetuate the strength
in the service of our policy holders.
>> So if I were to sum that up, the success
on the investment side unlocks product
or or service quality for policy
holders.
>> Product breadth,
future risks that are currently may may
not be visible to you, but are going to
evolve. We can be your partner in in
solving those.
>> you can underwrite that maybe others
couldn't because of the nature of the
balance sheet.
>> That's right.
>> Got it. And And so the the the
>> I would say at the at the at the most
extreme you can think of Berkshire as as
as being that. I mean, people think
about Berkshire's insurance operations.
The most visible obviously is GEICO, the
original, but they are the insurer of
last resort very very often. The reason
they can do that is because they've got
this incredible balance sheet. Again, I
I think Berkshire is in a universe of
its own, particularly in the way
shareholders have regarded Berkshire in
not asking for capital back. But that's
an extreme example of what you can do
when you have a balance sheet like that.
>> lunch with the Jain one time, the savant
that you know has run Berkshire's
insurance business forever.
And he he described what he did when you
really dig in on like well like
literally tell me like what a month
looks like in your life.
As the exact same as how I would
describe investing, which is he
literally said I wait around and sit
wait for the phone to ring.
And people call me with the craziest the
craziest propositions, the craziest
risks that I can price and underwrite
and then I I price risk. And it sounded
much more like Warren's job of waiting
for fat pitches as you know how he would
describe it. And as you said like it's
it's sort of the extreme version of
this, not this programmatic auto
insurance, but like wacky stuff that
nobody else in the world could do.
>> Correct.
>> So it sounds like part of what you've
built and are building is something that
moves more out in that direction and
isn't just this wrote, you know,
repetitive single kind of of
underwriting.
>> Exactly. We we are incredibly
diversified in our insurance businesses
and you're you're spot on in the way
you've just described, I guess, what
Ajit said, but we think about the
similarity between
not all our insurance lines, but but
particularly those that are more
esoteric ones or or or really really in
the commercial and specialty
uh space
um
as very similar in spirit to the
practice of what investing is, which
you're deploying capital into
uncertainty to achieve a return. That's
true across both.
>> Yeah.
>> And the risks tend to be not six-month
and one-year risks. They tend to be
uh multi-year risks. And so the same
disciplines and the same conceptual
framework applies. How do you manage How
do you manage your reserves? How do you
manage your liquidity?
These concepts go back and forth between
the balance sheet. Let's be clear, these
businesses operate in their own spheres
and ecosystem, not a lot of operational
synergy, but definitely strategic
synergy.
>> One of the things that you and I have
talked about many times that I think is
so important for the context that you
bring to the job is the power of America
and the American system.
And I have found this phenomenon that
the people that love America most often
didn't weren't born here. They're
immigrants. They they saw some other
system. They came to this one.
You have an incredible story in this
regard. Can Can you tell that early life
story in whatever vivid detail you're
able to? And And maybe like put a finer
point on this this thing that I've
noticed of the people that appreciate
this system the most came from outside
of it.
>> Yes, I do love America and it's uh we're
going to celebrate America's 250th
birthday uh this summer.
Look, I think when you're born outside
the United States, you are exposed to
a way of life that is very difficult to
actually
understand
for those that are fortunate enough to
be born in the United States. You take
certain things for granted that are just
not um you assume they are
like gravity because they just exist.
But, they're not. So, I was born uh in
Moldova, um
a former republic of the Soviet Union,
currently uh an independent country
right outside of Ukraine. I was very,
very fortunate that my parents decided
to uproot their lives um
in 1990 uh and and and make the
journey to the United States. Now,
to be clear, uh this wasn't like a a
difficult decision. This was something
that people could only dream of.
And
we were very fortunate for a number of
different reasons to take the path that
we did, which was a direct path to to
the United States. I think what is true
in the US, always has been true, still
true today,
despite all the many ways you could
criticize America, is that the level of
agency you have uh as a citizen of of
the US or as a resident of the US is
unparalleled to anywhere else in the
world. It is a vast country with
vast amount of regional differences,
cultural differences along the way. We
have done an incredible job of
ultimately integrating people into our
society. And if you have talents, if you
have motivation, there's an an infinite
amount of way you can both define what
success is,
define how you will contribute,
and ultimately live a life where you
have the option to thrive. Not everyone
thrives, but you have the option to, and
that option is not available uh to the
vast majority of humanity because you'll
be burdened by your family's history,
your ethnicity, your religion, your
government's oppressive system, and
inability to move up the socioeconomic
ladder because of the way the economy is
set up. All those things and versions of
or combinations of are present just
about everywhere. But in the US, you
have an opportunity. And I think I
you know had a chat before like one of
the ways I describe the fascinating
thing about America is
believe it or not through the lens of a
croissant.
I remember as a kid in the Soviet Union
um at about 6 years old or so,
um my mom would send me
to go get bread. And the way you get
bread is you go you know there you you
go there there's a bread store.
And there is a really one, maybe two
types of bread.
Um and there'd be lines outside of it
and you'd get the bread.
Um never went hungry so don't want to
trade those impressions. But the view
was very simple. Bread is bread. So why
why would you need more bread?
Um you get your loaf and you go have
your calories.
In the US,
we take the exact opposite view. If you
want to reinvent the croissant, which
exists in each thousand different ways
right around Union Square, you can do
that. And if you can figure out a way to
make it special to you, it's your
[snorts] customer,
there'll be a there'll be a market for
that. And what is the act of that? That
is human creativity. That is humans
iterating and perfecting and continuing
to apply themselves and to express
themselves
on something that doesn't need
um necessarily a different way of
consuming calories, but it's beautiful.
It's what drives I think
people in general in the United States
is to constantly make little tweaks that
make things better and we all benefit
from those. So,
I could go anywhere else with that, but
that's
>> I'm curious what else the experience was
like in that first decade of life, like
the bread story. Bread story is very
illustrative of like the power of a
market system and permissionless
innovation and all you know all these
things that you and I talked a lot
about. But what what else? Paint a
little bit more of a picture of what it
was like to spend the the formative
decade, you know, of your early
childhood there and the maybe draw the
contrast to you know what your
experience was then in the US.
>> Well, so at the highest level, you're
not given permission to dream.
So, just
you are
you're born to survive. You you're born
with an attitude and a notion of I need
to navigate
these
ways of life so that I can survive.
Um
and I'm not I don't I don't think it's
worth getting into all the other
components. Like I said, I I experienced
um
really
difficult persecution uh which is of
being Jewish in the Soviet Union.
>> That looked like what?
>> That looked like being called out uh in
school and look, I was a I you know, I
was a 9-year-old kid and I still have
memories of that. My parents experienced
that in much more stark ways where as a
Jew you were not allowed to pursue
certain professions or there would be
hard quotas on how many uh people would
be allowed to be in those professions.
You would be assigned where you lived.
There would be university quotas and so
on and so on. I didn't [clears throat]
experience obviously those things, but I
experienced a society where that was
normal and Jews were persecuted, many
other types of groups were persecuted.
The point is that was normal behavior.
It was overt, explicit uh persecution,
bullying, um all those things were part
of the social fabric. And so when you're
born into that, you are
consumed by this notion of like okay,
this is my reality. How do I navigate it
and survive?
Never mind iterating on innovation, I'm
just trying to survive.
Um, and so I think my experiences at the
same time I I do, you know, I was a kid.
I was a I was a reasonably happy kid
because when you accept those things as
part of your life, you don't dwell on
them. You don't think of yourself as a
victim. You just
accept them as they are and you form the
rest of your life around them as as
constants.
Um, and so I have both um
I guess kid memories. I I was going to
say happy, but really kid happy memories
as well as some of those stark moments
um of grayness of of just a society that
has no spirit, a society that has no
real art. And that's not a statement on
the people. That's a statement on the
way society's constructed and suppresses
those otherwise natural human, I think
uh traits. When you come to the US, you
experience literally the inverse of
that, right? This notion of
individualism. It's
the opposite of what you would
experience in a place like the Soviet
Union, but I would argue many other
societies as well.
Like everything else taken to its
uh excessive kind of corner, you would
probably find all sorts of issues with
individualism as the way to construct a
society and we wrestle with those in the
US, but what it does do is it frees a
person to pursue their talents, pursue
their interests, pursue a network of
friends they want to be associated with
in a way that's just impossible
uh elsewhere. How does that all
>> I'm sure it all shaped your worldview to
like a huge extent seeing the contrast.
>> Yeah.
>> How does that all then map back onto
this activity of investing? Like how
does it affect the culture you want to
build, the types of people you want to
partner with, the um types of deals that
you're interested in? Like I'm sure I'm
sure there's a connection.
>> Yeah, well I think I think my
you know
>> Back immigrants maybe.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
Well no, I wouldn't put it that way, but
I first I would kind of related to this
other uh notion of risk taking, not
assuming and not taking anything for
granted. Not being entitled to anything.
This is a fundamental trait that
immigrants share. When you come with
nothing,
just looking for
a life,
you
you don't think of yourself as entitled
to anything and I think that carries, no
matter how your life in the United
States
ultimately evolves, you know you're not
entitled to anything. No one owes you
anything. And that I think permeates the
spirit of
uh of frankly of of
the way I go through my
uh through my life. Now, we talked about
entrepreneurship, uh a culture of why do
this at all? Well, why not? Why wouldn't
you want to make something better? I
think we we've tried to have that
culture at Alteryx where we don't say
this is good enough.
That's not a good way to live.
If you're passionate about your work
and you're really interested in what you
do and you care about your craft, you're
going to continue to iterate because
it's what you do. It's and that leads to
better results. It's no different in my
mind than that silly act of trying to
create a better croissant. It exists in
current form, it's great, but you can
make it better. And um
so we do that. Uh I think culturally at
Alteryx we try to make things better,
whether it's our internal process,
whether it's the way we engage the
world, whether it's the way we are
willing to experiment with technology
and and and move fast. All that is part
of our culture. In terms of the
um
investing activity or this notion would
be backed uh you know, would be back at
certain type of
um
investor, what I would say is we look
for traits of entrepreneurs, of people
who are eager to make the world better
through the lens of whatever it is that
they're doing. And you know this so
well. I think investing the best
investors are obsessed
with their craft,
not because they're financially driven.
So, I think we look for that for that um
in our partners. We look for people who
are
incredibly passionate and good at what
they do, are able to communicate it and
make it come across, and who are clear
about what is it that they're trying to
accomplish. Because if you can't
communicate
a brilliant vision, it stays in your
head and unfortunately doesn't get
realized. So, lots of different things
that go into it, but
passion uh for your craft is a really
important
>> Going back to the composition of of the
portfolio that you've built, how much
and I'm especially focused on the the
the risk portion, um the credit and
growth
equity. How much of that ends up being
in like you invested in a specific
company versus you backed uh you
persistently backed a minute GP that
you're just like a a constant investor
in versus a one-off partnership with a
GP. Like, how does it then break down
once you get down to that granular
level?
>> Well, it has evolved. Uh you know, I
think through time we've created much
more of those options. Yeah.
Historically, depending on how far you
want to go, we would have had a
you know,
the primary way would have been to back
a GP. That's a pretty
narrow path.
Uh perfectly good one, uh but I'd say
we've been very very focused on that
same thing I described before. We want
to have as many ways we can engage and
help
uh
our business partners.
Asking the first question is what's the
exposure,
what's and then how do we best uh get
that exposure? The mix today is
dramatically different than it would
have been 5 years ago. So,
that's both expressed in the types of
exposure. So, for example, we used to
have a meaningful amount of exposure in
natural resources. Um
we have much less today.
So,
one could have looked at that and said,
"Well, natural resources is a way to get
exposure to energy, let's say, or
perhaps inflation hedge if you wanted to
put that lens on.
But, the way we were getting it
was not serving us well, both because of
our capabilities. We just didn't have
the capabilities to be operators of some
of these energy businesses. The second
part was they were quite narrow. And so,
the second you're focused on an
operating business,
that can be swamped
uh a against the backdrop of macro that
says, "Okay, well, energy prices are up,
but why is this thing not providing me
with what I thought it would?" Instead
today, I mentioned one of the verticals
we have is energy and infrastructure,
which is both a credit and equity
business, where we
in many cases choose to own certain
assets or have ownership in certain
assets, but not operate them, capital
across the capital stack, and provide
solutions, uh which allow us sometimes
to do things like provide credit, but
have upside exposure via warrants or
things like that, certainly back
partners, uh where appropriate, in parts
of the industry that are quite
technical, where we would never seek to
reproduce that kind of insight and and
that kind of capability. That
is an example of do we have
diversification in our portfolio? Do we
Are we benefiting in the moment from
that exposure to energy? Absolutely.
Would we have gotten the same level of
exposure and benefit from our previous
way of expressing that? No.
So, that is really, really important.
Having that diversity um of different
businesses and different exposures, but
I keep coming back to how do you how do
you acquire that exposure? That
difference can mean
the difference between it actually being
effective versus not. Do you find
yourself
selling yourself as a differentiated
partner to GPs because of all these ways
that you can support them to try to win
more allocation to their funds or
whatever up against other, you know,
partners that they might choose? And if
so, what's that like? Like what what's
the pitch What is your pitch to
GPs?
>> You've used this term, and I I've used
it ever since I heard you say it,
branded capital. But what is branded
capital? Branded capital could mean
literally, for one reason or another,
you're viewed as someone a GP should
engage with, and someone that that could
be many things. If you're looking if
you're a mega fund and you're coming to
raise through your fundraising cycle,
branded capital could be a large state
pension, which will always write the big
check. That's That's not what we do.
That's not what we are. And so that's
not our brand. Our brand is to come and
help you build a business. Uh our brand
is to be quick in the way we ingest
information, ultimately come back with
how we want to or don't want to
participate so that we don't waste your
time. We operate much more like a GP in
that way, and frankly look to
hire people that come from GPs or
operators rather than
uh just a traditional LP background. Of
course, we compete uh I'd say in a
variety of spaces,
but our reputation um continues to build
on the way we show up. So, I would say
any single one of our people that goes
out into the world can do tremendous
damage or bring tremendous benefit in
the way they engage. Because, as you
know, if if you do great things with 10
business partners,
the next 10 things are going to be
easier because at least a few of those
are going to come from that network. And
we find ourselves well beyond that. We
are a hub of incredibly interesting
relationships.
And we've tried to make sure that we
approach that with all the care and
diligence and
thoughtfulness what I mentioned before.
If I can identify a way we can be
helpful to two of our partners or three
of our partners and not be involved,
we're always going to do that. We're
always going to think that way because
we really do feel that these are
valuable relationships,
business relationships, friendships, uh
and just we're rooting for for all our
business partners. And so, we know that
one way or the other that's going to
help our business in the long term, and
that's part of our value proposition.
>> On this notion of branded capital, is it
fair to say that a goal you have is that
you want to be one of those LPs that a
GP thinks about as like a Yale or
something where okay, if Yale's back
this thing, like that that says
something about it, and that brings
other capital, it reduces the risk in
the eyes of other capital, and you want
to cultivate that and have cultivated
that reputation as being like one of
those 10, 15, you know, LPs that have
that like, you know, that that
imprimatur that that is impactful on the
partner.
>> Yes, I I that's exactly right. I think
we want to be one of those institutions,
but I would say we want to be even more
bold than that because there's a notion
of a name being on the capital
roster that allows others to come in.
That's a that's that's an asset you have
as that type of LP.
But we want to be much more than that.
We want to sustain that, maintain that,
but we also want to
be known for our creativity to structure
solutions, for our creativity and
willingness to take risks that some of
those institutions with that halo of a
brand just don't do,
not set up to do. That's not meant to be
a negative.
We want to be more than just that. And
in certain cases, that's all that you
need.
You know, in the case
let's say the venture ecosystem, which
you're so familiar with, we're not going
to try to replicate that outside of our
organization. That's where
you're competing truly with other
capital to get on the capital roster. In
other places, that's just not the that's
just not the game. The game is are you
creative? Are you quick?
Can you take certain risks that others
just don't even think about? So, the
game is different across different types
of exposures.
>> This environment is so interesting
because it feels as though
geopolitics
and just the kind of the changing
shifting nature of global order and
power structures matters to investing
outcomes for the first time in a long
time.
A whole generation of investors that is
retiring right now like didn't really
have to think too much about this. There
was kind of relative global peace and
stability post World War II.
Uh this like Pax Americana that everyone
talks about. And that's changing.
How do you think about that variable in
in all of this and like the top-down you
know system settings that you that you
stick in there that How do you think
about this?
>> I love history. We talked about this
before and so I'm particularly tempted
to uh engage in these things. But I
would say a couple of things I try to
remind myself of. Whatever it is that
you are living through we are living
through it feels particularly acute to
us. It always feels like the sharpest
moment probably isn't. And if you go
back and take people in our
uh parts of life they experienced things
then and they thought it was the most
acute thing. I also think about the fact
that in my career I've now been through
what I would say is more than enough of
uh various crises some of them feeling
like could this really be that I'm alive
during this period? I distinctly
remember walking uh after a long day on
Zoom uh in March or maybe April of 2020.
It was a rainy day um
it's like a 10 11-hour marathon on Zoom.
I just needed to walk outside and I'm
walking around and thinking is it really
possible that my life happened to
coincide with this moment in humanity
where
a pandemic was going to completely upend
uh society and human life as I know it.
I told myself odds are very small. I
don't it's it's very unlikely that
that's going to be the case.
And then I remind myself there were many
pandemics before that would wipe out
large parts of humanity. Yet humanity
goes on.
It is true that if you're living in that
period of time, your experience is
actually quite different than the lens
of history many years later. But I also
find like myself having those thoughts
over and over again. I have those
thoughts when it comes to the
unbelievable moment in technological
progress that we're living through. And
that feels really real and very, very
different in a way that you can
imagine society 10, 15 years from now
that will look nothing like what it
looks like today. But that was also
probably true during the Industrial
Revolution. For the people that looked
back 15 years after the steam engine
became mainstream, society looked
nothing like it did 15 years before. So,
is it really that different or is it
just continuous progress? And then I
think about the geopolitics today and
they do feel like we are certainly
breaking the order that had governed
economic flow,
security
architecture across the globe that has
been in place more or less since World
War II. You can make the argument that
along the way we had some really major
shifts like the Berlin Wall falling, but
it's been
a period where
certain norms in international relations
and certain
alliances held through all that. And it
does feel like that's changing. That in
itself I don't think affects
investing
um
if you're if you're focused in the US so
much. What does clearly matter is that
the economic architecture is changing.
It's changing from an energy
perspective, it's changing from a supply
chain perspective. And there real um
investing opportunities that that
and and risks that evolve from that. I
continue to think that the US is endowed
with inherent advantages um whether
that's the
ability to innovate, whether that is the
energy abundance that we ultimately
have. All those things continue to
conspire for American exceptionalism,
but we've also gotten quite accustomed
to a world where just-in-time
inventories were a thing, and now that's
challenged. The ability to identify the
cheapest pockets of labor or competitive
advantages, that they like the economics
people would say,
that's going to potentially have
structural impediments, which has
implications on inflation, on rates. How
does all that
balance with this what I perceive as an
incredibly deflationary impulse from
technology? I'm not sure. I think we are
reasonably good at identifying, by we I
mean
not LMI, but we as as as people who like
to think about these things, at
identifying the variables that drive
economic outcomes, but I think we're
terrible at is assigning weights to
them.
And so, that's why forecasting is next
to impossible. You may get the right
kind of issues, but you don't know how
they interact with each other.
You don't know what people do within the
system to adjust and mitigate all the
different
roadblocks that that come up. So, I do
think we're living through a moment. I
do think it's a reset in the way Pax
Americana govern, but I don't think it's
a reset away from American power
in the world, at least on a relative
basis. I think the world continues to
need America.
>> Vanta automates security and compliance
for over 16,000 fast-moving companies
like Ramp, Cursor, and Harvey, keeping
[music] them audit-ready around the
clock. It's the number one agent across
platform, and it now helps companies
like yours watch for the [music] risks
that show up between audits, across your
vendors, your AI tools, and your whole
environment. Every new tool your team
signs up for, [music] every vendor that
turns on AI features, is an opportunity
for something to go wrong. And those
security programs weren't built for AI's
pace of growth. The Vanta agent works
like a 24/7 GRC engineer in the
background, finding issues, [music]
drafting fixes for you, and cutting
vendor assessment time by up to 50%.
Whether you're a fast-growing startup or
a global enterprise, Vanta helps you
earn and prove trust.
Invest like the best listeners get a
special offer for $1,000 off at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is the first end-to-end
[music] system of record with embedded
AI for investment management firms,
running portfolio accounting,
reconciliation, reporting, trading, and
compliance [music] on one unified
platform. Firms are moving off legacy
technology and onto Ridgeline because of
how far ahead Ridgeline's AI features
are compared to anything else in [music]
investment management software.
I've been hearing from a lot of
investment managers about AI, and they
fall roughly into two camps, with some
unsure of where to even start [music]
and others convinced they can build
their own order management system over a
weekend. The reality is that running an
investment firm will always require
governance, controls, and a single
source of truth for your data, and no
amount of AI enthusiasm changes that
requirement. Ridgeline is built on
exactly that foundation, which is why I
believe that firms that come out ahead
in the AI era will be the ones running
on Ridgeline's unified platform. If
you're serious about your firm's AI
strategy, [music]
Ridgeline should be part of that
conversation. You can request a demo at
ridgeline.ai.
>> The other side of the coin [music] that
you mentioned is the changing technology
landscape. Arguably, that's the bigger
one than very unpredictable geopolitics.
This seems more predictable, like 10
years from now there's going to be a lot
more stuff uh that's changed as a result
of AI and and all that it impacts. How
does that filter through to your
investing? And of course, you can get
very tactical here, like you think about
software or you know, things like that,
but
I'm also curious just more holistically
what Like what is it What are the
conversations like inside of Liberty
about this topic and like what the hell
we
I'm sure like everyone you're wondering
what to do.
>> What's super different about this
technology than
others uh versions of of of how this
kind of came about is
it requires people to
engage with it, get get a relationship
with it, have agency. It's not a
software package that the technology
department's going to install on your
desktop and then you're going to put
your, you know, your workflow through.
It's just That's not what it is.
It's a absolute superpower that's given
to you to
get the thoughts out of your brain
and has the superhuman assistant that is
able to rationalize your thoughts, uh
present them in a coherent way,
interact with you. By the way, it makes
you sharper if you
go back and forth and kind of jostle
with it and and really become an editor
as opposed to just taking that first
output that it gives you and saying,
"Oh, good enough." Because
that's where slop tends to live. If you
just ask for something and you get it
back, it will give you generalities and
it will drive everything to kind of an
average, right? That's what these models
are. So, in order to
get the best out of them, you need to
engage with your knowledge, your
experience,
um your ideas and creativity,
it is amazing what you get back. And so,
I think in the in the investing sphere,
creativity is such an incredibly
important part. The ability to
take an obscure or or or frankly a
well-organized set of data and find
insights that are not easily observed
from it,
that's the art of investing. And now you
can iterate on that in such powerful
ways. I find myself using AI every
single day. More and more so, and
frankly, it raises other questions for
me. The more I spend
of of my day with AI, I'm actually not
spending it with my colleagues.
And so, I begin to worry about that now.
How much are you taking from those messy
relationships that are human
relationships and messy ways of getting
information into the super interesting,
smart, and efficient way of interacting
with the with artificial intelligence?
I don't know how that part is going to
play out because it almost is if you
take it again to the max, it's
isolating.
>> What are the biggest debates? Maybe this
is one of them, but if I think about the
team that you've built, you plus the
heads of the various, you know, parts of
the of the organization, what are you
guys debating and discussing most right
now in this in this combined interesting
environment of geopolitics, AI,
everything else that's going on?
>> So, I I would start with
one of the newer ones that is um
really interesting is notion of
how do you think about valuations across
not just software. Software I think has
been the most
talked about one. How do you think about
valuation of businesses in a world where
the future is increasingly invisible?
It was perhaps always invisible, but
you could get comfortable that
certain things had a lot more staying
power
through thick and thin
than not. And whenever you have that
dynamic, you could put a higher multiple
on things.
And that's how you rationalize paying a
price for for for an asset.
I think [clears throat] today you kind
of got to ask, well, do I really really
know which businesses
will thrive 10 years from now
or 15 years from now? I think that's
really difficult, and that could be
everything from yes, software, but maybe
perhaps even Home Depot or John Deere,
things that are not obvious in the in
the kind of AI
crossfire.
So, that leads you to a question of
should multiples be actually lower
across the board? And that's that's
really I I don't think I've experienced
a
question like that in my career where
you question multiples based on
macroeconomic variables like, oh,
inflation's higher, rates are higher,
therefore multiples should come down or
or some version of. This is very
different. You're literally saying the
future is so unpredictable that how can
I possibly
place a higher multiple on on something?
So, that is a really fascinating
question because it comes against the
backdrop of possibly very favorable
macro, which historically would have
just said higher multiples. It can come
against a backdrop of an expanding
economy.
Another way to put it is, you will
likely have trillion-dollar companies in
2030 that currently don't exist, and you
probably have trillion-dollar companies
or many hundred-billion-dollar companies
that will not exist. And we're starting
to see that, right? We're starting to
see therefore more volatility. So,
that's next kind of extension of that is
there's a multiple question. Now, you
also have potentially structurally
higher volatility. You combine that with
some of the tactical stuff like
perhaps the SEC will not require
quarterly earnings.
It's so you can make an argument that
volatility is just going to be
structurally higher um going forward.
The other part of that is everything
I've talked about for now is through the
equity lens.
In the credit space, same kind of
concepts apply. Am I worried about
four-year paper
in most of the software names? Probably
not. I mean, they're contracted out.
This is not a four-year issue. That that
paper should be money good.
Would I be worried about holding 30-year
credit on on on uh
>> Salesforce.
>> on Salesforce or Oracle or any of these
things?
I just think that it's a much much
riskier proposition. And so,
it would feel like that should drive
steepness in credit curves.
If if that's a structural shift that
takes place, that will change capital
market behavior.
And so, I again, I go back to the fact
that I have not experienced a framework
or a time in my career, and I can't
really go back uh through history and
identify something similar where
it's not really the macro conditions per
se, although you can maybe call this
macro, that are driving
potential repricing of equities and
long duration credit and
volatility
all because it's just uncertain
as to
how this technology will evolve and
change the fabric of the economics.
We've had things that change the fabric
of the economy, but it would be slow
burn. It would not be something that you
need to think about today.
Um, and and things like Salesforce is
you know, this is a company that is
embedded in the vast majority of
large companies in the United States and
maybe and globally. So, to me it's like
you know, the first question was are
people just going to buy code their own
CRM? No, of course not. Like I I sit in
a large enterprise. That's that's
absurd. That's not the question. The
question is is the company the
trillion-dollar company I mentioned
before that isn't even around today
that's still an idea somewhere. Will
they ever use Salesforce as part of
their ecosystem? And if the answer is
no, that should absolute absolutely be a
massive headwind to the valuation of
Salesforce even though
every Fortune 500 company may use
Salesforce into perpetuity. It's just
going to be a slowly it's going to you
know, it's a different business. It's a
cash cow business. Deserves a different
multiple. And that's what I think the
markets are wrestling with in the public
sphere, which has its own cascading
effects into the private sphere.
>> Yeah, I was going to ask that specific
question. So, if you've got this rise
and fall of the trillion-dollar you
know, that a new mag seven is emerging
or something like this. The question of
public versus private seems really
important and I mean this is important
question no matter what. There's there's
the three or four biggest companies in
private markets if they go public this
year or next year will be three of the
10 biggest companies
in public markets. That's that's that's
never happened before.
How do you think about this? What is
this debate like internally of how you
should allocate to the public part of
the market versus private especially
interested in the equity piece?
>> I think
public markets are
substantially more difficult to hold
than private markets. Um
many parallels to this, right? Like if
you
you don't think about the value of your
house every day,
even though it changes hourly every day,
but if you own a public REIT, real
estate, um you'll you'll probably look
at it every day and have some kind of uh
feelings from it. So, but fundamentally
equity exposure is equity exposure. So,
we don't think about moving between the
two based on this dynamic. It comes back
to what do we own
in private markets. And I think the more
significant
reason private markets have evolved the
way they have in the past decade is
you went public historically for very
specific reasons. You needed to raise a
certain amount of capital that was
simply unavailable uh in private
markets. They were just not robust
enough. And if you wanted to grow your
business, you would have to go to the
public markets.
There was a clear
element of prestige
with going public.
So, that was a milestone in a company's
history to go public. That was a thing.
And the trade-offs would be
you give up a significant amount of
control, the ability to make decisions
for longer horizons and sit through uh
difficult moments because public markets
punish you, shareholders react, boards
react. Private markets have more or less
addressed those challenges, right? You
can now raise gigantic amounts of
capital. So, the capital need
has been solved.
The prestige and milestone thing, that's
kind of gotten diluted. Uh these
companies have grown so large, we all
know what they are. And now the cost of
both being public is actually quite
high, whether that is a literal cost of
the amount of compliance required um
to people being really careful about
saying, "Do I want the kind of pressures
that are naturally present in public
markets
in the way I'm going to run my company?
And what is it that my company does? Can
I operate on a more of a
quarter-to-quarter or maybe year-to-year
basis? Or is my business really going to
suffer if I have to operate that way? I
really need that three to five-year
window, which public markets very rarely
give.
So, I think that's what's driven the
growth of private markets. And some of
those things may uh
mean revert, so maybe regulatory burden
reverts. That's at least fixable, but
the main reason of capital being
available to you as a private company, I
think that stays. And so, this balance
will persist. And so, I think if you are
an equity investor, you should
look at the equity risk first, and then
decide what is the best way to get it.
So, we have not stopped by any means uh
investing in the private markets. There
are other reasons why our balance sheet
specifically is probably not best suited
for public market uh exposure. That is
specific to our balance sheet. Doesn't
mean we don't participate. Doesn't mean
we don't take opportunities when when
they look particularly compelling.
But, we will continue to largely focus
in the private space for our equity
exposure. You and your senior team came
from Goldman.
>> Yeah.
>> Wha- what cultural crossover happened
there? What did you take with you? What
did you leave behind?
It's a very dist- obviously Goldman,
especially when you were there, a very
distinctive culture.
>> Goldman's one of these places where when
uh
when you're there, you're amongst such
talented and and driven people, it's a
hard place to be
uh and it's a thrilling place to be, but
you are particularly actually
appreciated once you're not in it uh
because of all the things that you
didn't know you were learning that you
were in fact learning. I think we
brought uh
a drive for excellence uh with us. I I'd
I'd say that's the most overarching
theme is I find it implausible to just
sit still.
To take something and say this is good
enough. Why should we do this? Like that
this involves risk.
It's just this motor uh that I think
people that come
and have been reasonably successful in
all of these organizations, that it's
inherent to them that they are always
pushing forward. Even though another
person may look at that and say, "Why
are you Why Why do you bother?"
>> Why is that enjoyable? Why is excellent?
Like, what is it about excellence that's
fun or enjoyable or rewarding?
>> I think about this a lot. I don't know
First of all, I clearly don't know the
answer to it. Um but I think as I've
gotten older, I think about this in an
very existential way. When you have a
family, when you think about the the
incredibly important lens that provides,
particularly through the
lens of your kids, you could
split your identity in so many different
ways. And if you
over swing to one or the other,
something suffers. Uh and everybody's
got their own equilibrium. But I've
continued to find that I get an
incredible amount of
personal
satisfaction
from building and being part of an
organization that is making progress,
that is making things better. By things,
I mean that can I can mean product, I
can mean customer experience, I can mean
the careers of the people
that are in my vicinity.
My god, it's it's one of the most
satisfying things in the world to have
you help other people progress through
their careers. You don't think about
that when you're younger, but it is
truly satisfying. And so
I've gotten more comfortable through
time with spending more of myself at
work
than I have before. Before I would be
very wary of that because I didn't want
to have
somehow
my kids see less of me because I am a
workaholic. But my whole frame around
that is is about I don't think I'm a
workaholic, but I am obsessed with
making things better and
being part of this organization and
team.
It's not about you. It's about the the
organization as a whole
and how it can continue to get better.
Gives me real real satisfaction. I have
three so inevitably I want to set an
example for them of best I can through
my experience of what it means to be a
productive human being, what it means to
be a good father,
unbelievably important,
what it means to show them love
and support and care.
Try to do that best I can every single
day.
I think they would
find that they get a healthy balance and
that balance moves through time. I my my
17-year-old, my firstborn, literally
needs a lot less of me today than he did
10 years ago.
I think that's less of something he
thinks about because it's so natural.
It's something that I think about and I
grapple with like, is it okay that we
interacted for 10-15 minutes? It was
maybe a high-quality interaction, but
it's all was 10-15 minutes. Um
I go to bed thinking about that
sometimes, but I also think about this
is a forever thing. Like you think about
your parents a lot less than they think
about you. That will forever be true.
It's true of your kids.
It's true of the way you probably
interact with your parents.
But your parents probably think about
you much more than you think about them.
It's just reality. I would close asking
about two concepts that I think are so
powerful that you've alluded to a bunch.
One is just permanent capital. Like what
what it's actually like. Everyone talks
about this is like a nice thing to have,
but what is actually like managing it?
Like you're not permanent. Nobody's
permanent. Ideally, if you do a great
job, this thing will go far beyond you.
So careers are not permanent. They're
they're transitory.
Um and then the second thing is this
notion kind of related to the question
on where you came from and where you
grew up of I think you call it like
pragmatic optimism. These two concepts
are interesting to me in in in
combination and I thought it'd be a fun
place to have you riff, you know, as we
wind up. The downside of permanence is
is that people change. So even though
the capital may be permanent,
people come through the organization
ultimately, and you're always dealing
with some version of, but another team
made that investment, or
there was a decision made in the past.
And you can dwell a lot on that.
Usually, the ones you're discussing are
the difficult ones, and not the good
ones that people are happy to absorb
into their window of time. Let me Let me
actually come back to that.
What I have found about managing
your own balance sheet as opposed to
managing third-party capital,
which
is inherently not permanent,
it completely changes what you think
about. Because when you're in a fund
cycle, when you have to deliver returns
to a fund
uh and to your investors, and then think
about the next one,
you are consumed
by the business that you're running.
Investment outcomes are kind of a
product
uh that you sell.
But you are ultimately running a
business, and so your business strategy
is going to always dwarf your investment
pro- process. No matter how many times
you can talk about your long-term
horizon, or whatever else, ultimately,
the time comes when new funds need to be
raised. If you're a public uh
alternative asset manager, you care
about
um
how the market will give you the highest
multiple, which will then drive a
certain way you will structure your
business. And the investing the craft of
investing
is inherently diluted one way or the
other. It just is. Um it doesn't mean
that there aren't excellent excellent
investors, but they have to think about
other things. In some case, that really
does take the business away from the
bespoke nature. In some cases, people
stay small, and many examples of that,
and ultimately, try to just deliver
truly outsize returns because of uh how
they approach that problem.
When you don't have to think about any
of that, and all you're thinking about
is how do I
take my capital,
deploy it into the world,
get the right rate of return on it, and
see the fruit of what that capital does,
it's it's just inherently different. You
are able to sustain what I describe as
much better investment hygiene. You
don't have to react. You don't have to
worry about doing
an investor update where some you know,
where where some of your investors may
have circumstances or priorities that
differ from other investors in your fund
and therefore creating tension,
polluting your investment process with
the nature of the business. We just
don't have that. We are singularly
focused on being
in the service of our policy holders, in
the service of our balance sheet,
and doing the best we can to deploy
capital for the right opportunity, for
the right rate of return. The other part
that you mentioned is very real. There's
a downside to to having that permanence
because you can make the argument that
it makes people
a little bit
more complacent about
this notion of the long term. I I
mentioned that before and I I always am
careful with saying we can make
long-term decisions that others can't.
I think when people say that for the
most part, what you end up with, and I
do mean the most part, is
some form of excuses as to why
sure, this is not great, but it will be
if you wait long enough.
>> Especially like you said before, the
volatility that might you know, that's
uh
>> Yes.
>> rising uncertainty.
>> Yes. So so I've
always almost had like this uh strange
uh fixed income
version of a of my thinking around long
term versus short term. It's like the
10-year rate is just a series of shorter
rates that build up to it. So, yes, you
can talk about the long term. The long
term is constructed of a bunch of short
terms. And so you have to actually hold
both truths. The ability to make
long-term decisions and focus on the
long term
is really valuable. But if it becomes a
crutch and an
explanatory variable as to why
you're either inconsistent or things are
not going the way that you'd like them
to go
then it's not very useful. In fact,
that's an impediment. Um and
I would I would just add one more thing
that because this is this is really
important.
I think all businesses
have a constraint of an annual calendar.
We would that's just the way we've
structured ourselves. Some have it very
acutely, quarterly constraints.
But the annual one is important for
everybody. Um
everybody has some notion of a financial
plan or objectives they're trying to hit
on an annual basis. But very few
businesses actually have those horizons.
And so this is another one where
you have to hold both truths
particularly when you're responsible for
the organization.
Your business is not a one-year
business. We know this. Uh and anything
can happen in a one-year window.
And yet you know that that one-year
result
has
importance to your stakeholders.
So the way I therefore
try to navigate that is to
one
be cognizant of the of the one year of
the calendar year but try to establish
some three-five-year targets and do put
yourself on the hook for those
uh in a much more meaningful way than
the one year or at least say more people
in this organization really are on the
hook for the three to five year and be
explicit about what that is than it is
for the one year.
The The other part is all businesses
that have this dynamic, they require
great degree of transparency from
all your stakeholders in order for you
to ride those waves.
Because if your business is
opaque, not understood,
and volatile,
that's a recipe for ultimately not being
supported through difficult times.
And so, I try to always remind myself
and
my leadership team
that transparency
is what allows you to have autonomy. No
transparency, no autonomy. Critically
important, difficult to deliver, and
people don't always focus on it.
>> I love doing this with you. I love your
story. I love the way you built this
thing. I think it's extremely
distinctive. It truly is one of those 10
referent, you know, branded capital LPs
that I think everyone out there wants.
It's so interesting to me. Maybe I
should make this a series or something.
To to to to really help the world
understand how each of these huge pools
of capital thinks and works. Um I think
you know my traditional closing question
for everyone. What is the kindest thing
that anyone's ever done for you?
>> This is the one question I knew was
coming. I've thought about it.
Um I had so many thoughts on who I
should uh describe I've been fortunate
to have many. I'm going to come back and
uh maybe do something that I haven't
seen uh others uh say on your podcast.
I'm going to come back and say the
kindest thing is this um
group of people that have fought for
constructed pathways for legal
immigration to the United States. So, my
gratitude is to America. Uh and my
gratitude is
to the people
that
for their for reasons they didn't have
to allowed people like me
to come to America to have a very, very,
very different life than I would have
otherwise had.
To allow me to have an impact on people
that are in my vicinity and and
surroundings, hopefully a positive one.
And to find a way to uh learn from from
that gratitude uh and continue to have
pragmatic optimism that America is
essential
>> [snorts]
>> to the world. It is still the shining
city on a hill and I want to do whatever
I can to remind people of that, to
contribute to it, and every single day
be grateful for being an American
citizen.
>> Beautiful. First first answer of its
kind, which is hard to do 500 of these
in. Thanks for the great answer and for
your time.
>> Awesome. Thanks.
>> Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking [music]
through a thousand tiny decisions
nobody's watching. Ramp puts guardrails
on spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
[music]
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth
[music] for security and risk. Learn
more at vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter [music] operations, and a
competitive edge. Visit
ridgelineapps.com to see what they can
unlock for your firm.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo [music] does. It's an AI
platform built specifically for Wall
Street, connected to your data,
understanding your process, and
producing real outputs. Check them out
at rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity use
WorkOS to become enterprise-ready
overnight, not in months. Visit
workos.com to skip the unglamorous
infrastructure work and focus on your
product.